# Core plugins


#### Must-have settings
Let's customize the workspace a bit more! Click on the **settings** (wheel icon) on the bottom left and go into the **Editor** menu first. Here, we recommend that you activate the following:
1. **Spell check**
2. **Auto-pair brackets**
3. **Auto-pair Markdown Syntax**


Now, go to "Files &Links" and activate the following:
1. **Automatically update internal links** -> this one is **important** to have. Each time you change a link name, it updates that new link name in all notes automatically.


#### Core plugins
 Click on the **settings** (wheel icon) on the bottom left and go into the "Core plugins"  menu. Here, we recommend that you activate the following core plugins:

1. **Search** <- To search within your documents.
2. **Backlinks** <- This will show you the other end of the links from the document that has been linked, so that you don't need to link it back.
3. **Outgoing links** <- This shows a list of destinations your note links to. It also gives a list of unlinked mentions from the current note that can be linked.
4. **Tag pane** <- To have an overview of your tags inside the documents.
5. **Page preview** <- You will have a preview of the page when hovering over the link
6. **Templates** <- You will be able to create note templates
7.  **Graph view** <- Utilizes the graph feature. For additional graph settings, check out [[1.6 Graph view]]
8.  **Outline** <- For navigating between headers in notes.
9.  **Word count** <- For keeping track of words written.
10. **File recovery** <- Restores snapshots in case your files collapse.

Other interesting plugins:
10.  **Zettelkasten prefixer** <-Generates a Zettelkasten prefixer for random note-taking
11.  **Audio recorder** <- To record a note with audio


When you feel ready, head over to [[1.4 Community plugins and snippets]] for downloading customized community plugins. This is where the fun starts!


---
#appearanceplugins