# Community plugins


#### Installing community plugins
1. We have already made some settings changes, so you should be able to view community plugins menu. However, if you are starting a new vault, you will first need to **Disable safe mode**. You will get a warning message that you are about to turn off safe mode. Select "Turn off Safe Mode."
2. Click on **Browse** and search for community plugins.
3. Select install for the plugins that you wish to download. After the installation, select **Enable** or activate it under the list of community plugins. Now you should be able to use the plugin.
4. Some plugins have icons that are on your obsidian workspace, so that they are easier to find. Others only have hotkeys assigned to them. Browse all hotkeys by selecting the **Open command palette** icon in the left corner (it is found right below the graph view icon).

#### Recommendations

Here are some community plugins that we use and **recommend** for this tutorial:

1. **Ozan's Image in Editor plugin** <- this will allow you to view images in markdown editor mode (so that you don't have to switch to preview for viewing). *note: this plugin will be useful for the tutorial!*
3. **Checklist** <- this plugin allows you to see your checklist while you are working on the document. Go to [[3.1 To-do list]] to see a checklist example.
4. **Obsidian Advanced New file** <- Allows you to choose a folder before creating the note. Go to hotkey settings to create a key for this feature.
5. **Better word count** <- for more word count details (for the sprints, of course).
6. **Dictionary** <- this will recommend synonyms in your text, suggest spell errors.
7. **Sliding Panes** <- Plugin for viewing multiple documents as panes.
8. **Advanced tables** <- If you would like to make tables in your vault (to replace Excel, somewhat).
9. **Excalidraw** <- For making drawings and embedding them into your notes. Great for visualizing figures for datasets and in drafts.
10. **CSV Table** <- Embed a CSV file as a table within a note.
11. **Citations** <- this plugin is a must for working with Zotero. With this plugin, you can add in text citations to your notes and browse your zotero library. You can also add literature notes and annotations from Zotero. Head over to [[1.7 Zotero]] for more details on how to do this.
12. **Pandoc plugin** <- this plugin lets you convert your documents to Word format directly from Obsidian.
13. **txt-as-md** <- this plugin enables Obsidian to read other files (such as .txt, .rmd, .r files) as .md files.

Every week, new community plugins added to Obsidian. Developers are constantly working on making new functions for the program! Make sure to regularly check for new and update existing plugins. Note that these plugins also change names as new versions come out.

#### Viewing plugins, graphs, and changing workspace layout

You can customize your workspace with the new plugins. For example, let's say you want to view the dictionary, or your to-do list, while working on a document. If the plugin hasn't already shown up once downloaded, open command palette (4th icon on top left side) and search for the plugin. 

Once there, you can move around the plugin by holding it down and dragging it to a new spot. 

Click on the three dots on the top right (or bottom left in other versions) of this document to split the view, or to close/open a local graph. You can also permanently drag or remove the graph view or other features around, if you wish to.

#### Snippets

If there are features that you do not like in a community theme, you can also add and customize your own snippet code.

Simply add a snippets folder to your .obsidian folder (this will be where your vault is located on the local storage). In this folder, you can add snippets for additional changes (such as font, text alignment, color, background, etc.). For example, you can add a snippet file to the snippets folder to change all text into being justified, instead of left aligned.

Snippet codes can be found at: https://forum.obsidian.md/t/meta-post-common-css-hacks/1978

If you have added a snippet, be sure to activate the added snippets found in Settings->Appearance->CSS snippets


Next, navigate over to [[1.5 Appearance]] to learn more about theme customization! Or Go to [[1.4 Exercise]] for more practice!

protip: to unhide hidden folders in your directory (such as css snippets and plugins), press shift+command+.

---
#appearanceplugins