# Zotero

Zotero is an open source reference manager (similar to Mendeley). 

#### 1. Add-ons needed for Zotero:
You will need some additional add-ons in Zotoro. In Zotero, go to Tools->Add-ons->Install Add-ons from file. Here you will add:
1. Better BibTex for Zotero <- For citing in LaTex and generating citekeys. Found here: https://retorque.re/zotero-better-bibtex/installation/
2. Mdnotes <- Converts annotations to markdown code that you can export to Obsidian. Found here: https://github.com/argenos/zotero-mdnotes
3. Zotfile <- For extracting annotations and managing PDFs from browser. Found here: http://zotfile.com/


#### 2. Add-ons needed for Obsidian
You will also need to install the citations plugin on Obsidian ([[1.3 Community plugins and snippets]])
1. Citations <- With this plugin, you can add in text citations to your notes and browse your zotero library. 
2. Pandoc plugin <- This plugin lets you convert your documents to Word format direction from Obsidian


#### 3. Additional add-ons
We recommend that you install a Zotero add-on on your browser (either chrome, firefox, or brave) so that you can add references and PDFs directly from browser->Zotero.


#### 4. Connecting Zotero with Obsidian
You will need to save the .bib file inside your local vault folder so that Obsidian can retrieve the Zotero references. To do this:
1. Right click on your library folder -> Export library (and check the "Keep updated").
2. Once you have exported the .bib file, copy its path name.
3. Open Obsidian and go to the Citations plugin settings. Select BibLaTex under Citation database format and copy-paste the .bib path under Citation database path.
4. Test this by opening a new note with control+N. You should now be able to browse your references inside Obsidian and add literature notes.

#### 5. Stylizing the literature note
Go back to the Citations plugin settings in Obsidian and locate the literature note settings. Here you can make a literature note template for retrieving article information that you find important. Our current template looks like this:

```
# Literature note:
---
**Title:** {{title}}
**Authors:** {{authorString}}
**Type:** Enter article type (opinion, review, original research)
**Year:** {{year}}
**URI reference in Zotero:** {{zoteroSelectURI}}
**Abstract:** {{abstract}}
**Citekey:** {{citekey}}
**Chapters used in:** [[]]
```

#### 6. Extracting annotations from Zotero to Obsidian



#### 7. Add in-text citations in Obsidian notes using citekeys
You can add in-text citations in Obsidian using the citekeys generated from the Better BibText for Zotero add-on. To add a in-text citation to your note, use one pair of brackets and add the specified @citekey generated in Zotero. So: [@citekey]. You can also search for the Zotero citekeys directly in obsidian by adding a hotkey to the Citations plugin. Go to settings ->  hotkeys -> locate the Citations: Insert Markdown citation -> assign a hotkey. We use the hotkey option+c to browse for citekeys.






#### 8. Converting links into in-text citations using Zettlr (Bonus!)
Remember how we can make links in Obsidian by using [[]]?
And when citing in-text, we use [@citekey]?

You can combine these two features by writing [[2.3 @citekey]], thereby making a link that refers to a note where your annotations are. Then, once removing the second brackets and converting the note to a final Word document through the Pandoc plugin, the linked note with the citekey will turn into a Zotero generated in-text citation.

If you would like to set up this workflow, we currently recommend downloading and using Zettlr. This is a program similar to Obsidian, however it is currently better at generating in-text citations and bibliographies (although this might come soon to Obsidian!!). For more details on this set-up, go to [[1.5 Pandoc and Zettlr]].



==Link to YouTube video on Zotero & Obsidian workflow:== https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Fjhad-Z61o








---
#zotero

