# Zotero

Zotero is an open source reference manager (similar to Mendeley). It allows you to download PDFs and citations directly from your web browser to your computer or Zotero cloud. Also, by its own you can install plug-ins to cite-while-you-write on Word or GDocs. You don't need Obsidian to use Zotero, but the Obsidian community has created integrations with Zotero, making it ideal for this workflow. This section on Zotero is heavily inspired by [Cat's workflow](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/zotero-zotfile-mdnotes-obsidian-dataview-workflow/15536)

Zotero on its own is great to storage and cite-while-writing. It already comes with a plugin for your web browser that allows you to download the reference information from a PDF you found. Also it automatically generates a reference if you download the RIS file or bib file from a citation online.

Zotero allows you to install a plugin on your default word processor (Word or GDocs) that enables you to insert a citation in the format of your choosing directly on the document. You can also generate a bibliography.

#### 1. Add-ons needed for Zotero:

You will need some additional add-ons in Zotero. In Zotero, go to Tools-> Add-ons -> Install Add-ons from file. Here you will add:
1. Better BibTex for Zotero <- For citing in LaTex and generating citekeys. Found here: https://retorque.re/zotero-better-bibtex/installation/. You can also change citekey formats here: https://retorque.re/zotero-better-bibtex/citing/
2. Mdnotes <- Converts annotations to markdown code that you can export to Obsidian. Found here: https://github.com/argenos/zotero-mdnotes/releases/tag/0.1.3
3. Zotfile <- For extracting annotations and managing PDFs from browser. Found here: http://zotfile.com/


#### 2. Add-ons needed for Obsidian
You will also need to install the citations plugin on Obsidian ([[1.4 Community plugins and snippets]])
1. Citations <- With this plugin, you can add in text citations to your notes and browse your zotero library. 
2. Pandoc plugin <- This plugin lets you convert your documents to Word format directly from Obsidian


#### 3. Additional add-ons
We recommend that you install a Zotero add-on on your browser (either chrome, firefox, or brave) so that you can add references and PDFs directly from browser->Zotero.


#### 4. Connecting Zotero with Obsidian
You will need to save the .bib file inside your local vault folder so that Obsidian can retrieve the Zotero references. To do this:
1. Right click on your library folder -> Export library (with format BetterBib LaTeX and check the "Keep updated") -> Insert into the Vault general folder
2. Once you have exported the .bib file, copy its path name.
3. Open Obsidian and go to the Citations plugin settings. Select **BibLaTex** under Citation database format and copy-paste the .bib path under Citation database path.
4. Test this by opening a new note with control+N. You should now be able to browse your references inside Obsidian and add literature notes.

#### 5. Stylizing the literature note
Go back to the Citations plugin settings in Obsidian and locate the literature note settings. Here you can make a literature note template for retrieving article information that you find important. Our current template looks like this:

```
# Literature note:
---
**Title:** {{title}}
**Authors:** {{authorString}}
**Type:** Enter article type (opinion, review, original research)
**Year:** {{year}}
**URI reference in Zotero:** {{zoteroSelectURI}}
**Abstract:** {{abstract}}
**Citekey:** {{citekey}}
**Chapters used in:** [[]]
```

#### 6. Extracting annotations from Zotero to Obsidian
Let's try annotating and extracting an article from your Zotero library:
1. Open Zotero and select a paper to annotate.
2. Highlight text and write a comment. Save the PDF file.
3. Go back to the Zotero library and right click on the article. Select Manage attachments ->Extract annotations. A new file (orange) should appear. You can edit the annotations as you wish within that file.
4. When ready, right click on the extracted annotation file and select Mdnotes -> Export to markdown. Save the file in either 1. a dump folder where you plan to keep your markdown notes, or 2. directly within a folder in your Obsidian vault. If choosing option 1, now copy paste the text and insert in a new note on Obsidian. 

If you want to fully customize your annotations we recommend to follow [Cat's workflow](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/zotero-zotfile-mdnotes-obsidian-dataview-workflow/15536). They customize the highlights of your annotations to mean different ideas. For example, green for references and then generates a reading list on Obsidian!

#### 7. Add in-text citations in Obsidian notes using citekeys
You can add in-text citations in Obsidian using the citekeys generated from the Better BibText for Zotero add-on. 

To add a in-text citation to your note, use one pair of brackets and add the specified @citekey generated in Zotero. So: [@citekey].

You can also search for the Zotero citekeys directly in obsidian by adding a hotkey to the Citations plugin. Go to settings ->  hotkeys -> locate the Citations: Insert Markdown citation -> assign a hotkey. We use the hotkey option+c to browse for citekeys.

#### 8. Converting links into in-text citations using Zettlr (Bonus!)
Remember how we can make links in Obsidian by using [[]]?
And when citing in-text, we use [@citekey]?

You can combine these two features by writing [[3.3 @citekey]] and making a link to a reference. You can use this as a storage for note-taking about this reference or adding annotations. Once converting the note to a final Word document through the Pandoc plugin, remove the second bracket and the linked note with the citekey will turn into a Zotero-generated in-text citation.

If you would like to set up this workflow, we currently recommend downloading and using Zettlr. This is a program similar to Obsidian, however it is currently better at generating in-text citations and bibliographies (although this might come soon to Obsidian!!). For more details on this set-up, go to [[1.8 Pandoc and Zettlr]].


[Link to YouTube video on Zotero & Obsidian workflow:](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Fjhad-Z61o)
[Link to Cat's workflow](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/zotero-zotfile-mdnotes-obsidian-dataview-workflow/15536)

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_Fjhad-Z61o
"width="700" height="350"></iframe>


---
#zotero

