# Pandoc and Zettlr

#### How to set up Pandoc plugin through Obsidian

Pandoc is a universal document converter and convert files, such as markdown and LaTeX, into Microsoft Word docx and PDFs. The Obsidian plugin for Pandoc allows you to use Pandoc to convert your .md notes into Word.

**Instructions:**
1. Install Pandoc for your system here: https://pandoc.org/installing.html
2. Install and activate the community "Pandoc plugin" for Obsidian for converting an .md document into a word document with final citations from Zotero. You will also need the "citations plugin" installed and set up for this.
3. Open the Pandoc plugin settings and make the following adjustments:
		- Internal link processing: Turn into text (Note: we are currently working on an option for turning links into citations, see part 8 in [[1.7 Zotero]])
		- Export files from HTML or markdown? Markdown
		- Export folder: Add a path to a new export folder (it should **not** inside your Obsidian vault).
		- Pandoc path: Enter the pandoc path here. You can find this by either typing 'which pandoc' in terminal (if you have a Mac) or 'get-Command pandoc' in powershell (if you have Windows). If the pandoc plugin does not work, check that you have the correct pandoc version installed (2.14). To check this, go to terminal and type 'pandoc --version'. Also, be aware that the newer version of pandoc that you downloaded might be hiding in /usr/local/bin/pandoc and not in anaconda3.
		- Extra pandoc arguments: Add --citeproc 
		- On top of your .md document that you wish to convert, add this YAML note:

```
---
bibliography: /Users/username/folder/vault/My Library.bib
---
```
	      
(Be sure to use / instead of \ on windows)


#### How to convert .md into .docx (Word document)

1. Open command palette (4th icon on left side)
2. Search for the Pandoc: Export as Word document option. Select this option - now you should be able to see your note converted into a .docx file with a bibliography!

Note: You can use pandoc for all of your files in the command-line tool (terminal in Mac, classic command prompt in Windows). You can read more on this here, although this is not necessary to know for the Obsidian tutorial: https://pandoc.org/getting-started.html


#### How to convert .docx back in to .md
==currently not working==

## Plugin Installation

1. Install the The word processor plugin for word. You can reinstall the plugins later from the Cite → Word Processor Plugins pane of the Zotero preferences. ==not working for me on this step which is causing later step not to work==

2. First convert Word doc into MD. Be sure to set your directory first using cd and path. You will need to do this through the command line, not through Obsidian. 

```
pandoc --wrap=none -s 104_draft.docx -t markdown -o 104_draft.md
```

3. Go to https://gist.github.com/alanzchen/6c30227d82f411da1baba4b7d1ec088b and download script. Be sure to move to same directory where the file being converted is.

4. Use downloaded script to process the newly converted .md file

```
./convert.py /Users/bla/Zotero/better-bibtex-search.sqlite /Users/bla/Desktop/transfer.md
```

You should now have an .md document that has the citekeys from your Zotero library (instead of the regular citation). 

Notes:
-  If you are denied permission to use convert.py script, be sure to give execute permission (if the file-system allows you with the RW rights):

```
chmod +x convert.py
```

- if you are receiving an error: "convert.py: error: unrecognized arguments," then you need to:...tbd

#### How to set up Zettlr

Since the Obsidian pandoc plugin is buggy for some users, we found another workflow using Zettlr that may work better for some of you.

Zettlr is a Zettelkasten note-taking program with markdown syntax, just like Obsidian. However, it does not have access to community plugins and there is currently no way to view linkages on a graph. But, unlike Obsidian, Zettlr can generate a bibliography from Zotero and can utilize pandoc to convert .md files to word documents. We use here Zettlr as a mediator between Obsidian and generating the final Microsoft Word .docx file.

**Instructions:**
1. If you haven't already, install pandoc for your system here: https://pandoc.org/installing.html
2. Download and install Zettlr from here: https://www.zettlr.com/
3. Open Zettlr and create a new workspace (a vault) that is separate from the Obsidian vault (to avoid syncing on top).
4. Copy-paste another copy of your Zotero .bib file (with same steps from [[1.7 Zotero]]) into the folder
5. Open the Zettlr settings (wheel icon) and go to **Export**. Insert the path name of the .bib file into "Citation Database" and activate the internal Pandoc for exports.
6. Go to Advanced settings and add the path to pandoc executable. You can find this by either typing 'which pandoc' in terminal (if you have a Mac) or 'get-Command pandoc' in powershell (if you have Windows).

**Converting an Obsidian note with Zettlr**
1. Go to the local folder where your Obsidian notes are located. Copy a .md note and paste it into the workspace folder selected for Zettlr.
2. Open up Zettlr. You should now be able to see the document.
3. If you are using double-brackets [[]] around citations in Obsidian, be sure to remove the second bracket, so that there is only one. It should look like [@citekey]. From here, Zettlr will recognize these citations as part of the .bib file.
4. At the top of the window, there will be an icon for converting the document to a PDF or .docx Microsoft Word file ("Share the current file as HTML, DOCX, ODT, or PDF"). Select the .docx option.
5. You should now see your note as a Microsoft word document, with the citekey converted as an in-text citation (i.e. @citekey-> Author last, initial first. year) and a generated bibliography at the bottom.
6. There may be some formatting that you would like to do this (final font and colors in Word). These can be customized in Zettlr by viewing the template options here: https://docs.zettlr.com/en/academic/custom-templates/#hacking-your-templates. To customize, go to Settings->Advanced and add the variables to **Pandoc command**.


#### Pandoc Customization

So, now the conversion works! However, you don't like the font or formatting that Pandoc uses. Don't worry, we can change this by adding options from the Pandoc manual found here: https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html

Details on this might be added later to this tutorial.


---
#zotero