# Github 

If you use github as a repository or want to collaborate with others on a vault, you can upload all obsidian notes onto github (as they are in markdown syntax). This is useful for working on documents with other collaborators and making edits, without having to merge multiple Word document versions.

#### Connecting Github with your local vault
To connect a Github repository with a vault on your local system:
1. Create a new vault and select a folder where you wish the vault to be saved. 
2. Log into Github Desktop (or other method), select "Add existing repository"
3. Choose the path where your folder is located. You should now be able to push/pull changes from your vault to the Github repository.


#### .gitignore script
When you have connected the github repository with your local vault, it is recommended that you create a script titled: .gitignore to prevent github from also uploading system files from Obsidian (CSS code, java scripts, etc.). Ideally, you would only want to see .md files and folders from your vault.

Inside this script, you will add:
```
.obsidian/ 
```



#### 2. sync script
This script is not required, unless you want to automatically sync your vault using the git community plugin. If so, add a sync script to your repository as well. Title it: sync
Inside this script, you will add:
```
#!/bin/bash

export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin

gstatus=`git status --porcelain`

if [ ${#gstatus} -ne @ ]
then

	git add --all
	sleep 10
	git commit -m "Automated sync: $gstatus"
	sleep 10
	git pull --rebase
	sleep 10
	git push
	
	fi
```

#### Community plugins that work well with github
 There is also a community plugin for automatically updating Github with the latest changes, as well as a changelog plugin that reports changes made, however these scripts are **not** required for connecting github to obsidian.
1. Obsidian git <- Sets up automatic github syncing every x minutes
2. Vault changelog <- To keep a record of changes happening in your vault

(For more community plugins, go to [[1.4 Community plugins and snippets]])

==Link to YouTube video on Github & Obsidian workflow:== https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H6ipjzaN2WY






---
#github